Chapter 1 Review Questions

1. What is the Pacific Rim?

The Pacific Rim is the area surrounding the Pacific Ocean which includes the western shores of America and some islands.

2. What is the difference between “cultural characteristics” and “natural characteristics”?

Cultural characteristics are like traditions. They are things that people passed on over time, and sometimes a habit. For example, going fishing is a tradition that people in Texas are unlikely to have, because of the hot weather. Religion is a common tradition.

3. What are some natural events that shaped the geography of Washington State?

Some natural events that shaped the geography of Washington include glaciers, the ice age, meteors, earthquakes, etc.

4. Describe Washington’s 4 boundaries?

The western boundary is the Pacific Ocean. The southern boundry is Oregon. The eastern boundry is Idaho. The northern boundry is British Columbia.

5. How have people impacted the land in Washington?

People have impacted the land by doing many things. They dig for oil causing earthquakes, they chop down trees ruining natural habitats, they build cities and factories, polluting the air. I can’t say any of it has been positive.

6. List the 5 regions of Washington.

Coastal Range, Puget Sound Lowlands, Cascade Range, Columbia Plaetau, Rocky Mountains.

7. Which of those 5 regions has the largest population?

Puget Sound Lowlands

8. What are some benefits of living near the Pacific Ocean?

Fishing, Going to the Beach, Lots of water, cold, lots of birds, etc.

9. What is the “Ring of Fire”?

A ring which goes into many areas. Tons of earthquakes and eruptions occur here. It has 452 volcanoes.

10. What was the biggest factor for the early people in deciding where to settle?

Most likely the land. People need to consider the environment wherever they are trying to settle. If you live in a harsh environment like Alaska, you are going to have a hard time surviving. An area like California which is warm and never too cold is a good environment because you won’t have to struggle in the cold like you would in Alaska. You also need to make sure you have a good farmland or animals that you can hunt. An area with only bears wouldn’t be a good idea because bears are massive and you are tiny. You also need to consider floods, eruptions, earthquakes, tornadoes and just about any other natural disaster. If you pick an area with tons of disasters, your civilization will be less advanced or will lose most of its advancement because a place in California would likely never be destroyed by tsunamis, but a place like Miami or Hawaii would.